[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH: We have
Sonia Barrett, producer
of the documentary "The
Business of Disease," talking
about the need to maintain
authority over our own body
and mind, which is
a really big task
amid the current challenges.
Sonia, welcome.
It's good to see you.
I haven't interviewed
you for about a decade.
>>SONIA BARRETT: Oh,
it's been a while,
and I am so
delighted to be here.
Good to see you.
>>REGINA: Yes.
Now, we're going to start off
on a little bit of a grim topic,
if you don't mind,
and the reason
is because there are
things that are not
being talked about here.
One of them is alcoholism
and drug use is on the rise,
suicides are on the rise,
and abuse, particularly
domestic abuse.
A big uptick in domestic
abuse with people
being quarantined with one
another in small spaces
where they maybe didn't
get along to begin with,
and we all have
our issues, right?
And I bring this up because
it was really abuse originally
that kind of spiked you
to an opening in yourself
and the nature of your
perceptions of life.
And so I thought, because
it's not talked about much,
let's just start the
conversation there,
and then we're
going to go further
into the rest of the phenomena.
>>BARRETT: Well, you know what?
That is a big subject.
Well, everything you
mentioned a few minutes ago,
in terms of suicides
and domestic violence,
so much that's going
on because people
are obviously locked in
and trapped and so on.
>>REGINA: And they're not
really reporting on this.
>>BARRETT: No.
>>REGINA: Not either
side, not any news.
>>BARRETT: No.
>>REGINA: They're
not reporting it.
You really have to go to
some pretty astute vloggers
and bloggers to get any
information these days.
>>BARRETT: Absolutely.
Well, I think that's going to
be the huge fallout from all
of this, and I don't
think people realize that.
But just in terms
of my own self,
yes, in the very beginning
what pushed me or propelled me
into wanting to discover more
about the nature of reality
and life and so on
was my own experience,
going through domestic violence.
And even then--
it's so interesting
because I never really used
that word "domestic violence"
because I never labeled myself.
However, looking back,
yes, it was an experience,
but I also realized
the intensity
of that kind of experience,
and people are going
through that at this time.
For me, my situation had gotten
so severe that I ran away.
I ran away with two
children and slept in my car
for almost two weeks.
Now, what I like to say to folks
who are probably experiencing
some of these things.
There came a point for me
where I had to make a decision.
I had to make a choice.
And it wasn't about trying
to figure out, well,
how am I going to get by?
That became secondary.
And I think people have
to start looking at,
well, you know, my life,
my life is the value here.
And as long as
you are breathing,
there is going to be
an opportunity to rise.
And so when I left,
of course I didn't
leave with all of this
great thinking and thought
and all of that.
I just knew I had to
go, and so we did that.
Now, just going past
all of that, because I
won't get into all
the details of it.
But what happened is
there became a point,
maybe shortly after I managed
to get myself together,
and I was assisted by a church
because I left and I got
cut off from money and
walked out on a business.
And, I mean, it was what you
call a real walking away.
I remember the church that I--
I slept in a parking lot.
We slept in the parking lot--
>>REGINA: Of the church?
>>BARRETT: No, it
wasn't the church,
it was a supermarket
shopping center.
And the church that happened
to be across from it,
eventually I would go there and
they would give me groceries,
and I would clean the church for
15 bucks to get gas and so on.
So I'm bringing up
these things because I
think it's important that people
realize that everybody doesn't
really start out--
OK, they're an author
now and they're
doing all these things--
that everybody doesn't
just jump into it.
There are things that
happen in our lives that
become the propulsion
for that kind of change.
And for me, it
was an opportunity
to start to question.
So during that whole process,
once I got a bit more settled
and we had some place
to stay, I thought,
what on Earth was that, that
14 years of living that,
and my own fear of leaving?
>>REGINA: Right.
>>BARRETT: And that's very real.
People would say, well,
why do people stay
when you're going through that?
Why do you stay?
Well, you have to understand
that your condition, when
somebody says, I will
find you no matter what,
and perhaps you have no
family, which, at the time
I didn't have anybody.
My parents are deceased.
Somebody says that.
You are thinking, if
I leave, if I run--
those words are echoing--
if I run, they're
going to find me.
He's going to find me.
>>REGINA: And you're
already in a traumatized,
extraordinarily vulnerable,
which means, very open state
when you're receiving
these messages.
>>BARRETT: Absolutely,
absolutely.
And you have to keep two
other little people safe,
so you eventually
get the courage
and you say that one day--
I remember I used to then pray
and I'd go, just show me a way.
Make something happen.
Two weeks before I
actually had said that,
make something happen--
>>REGINA: What happened?
>>BARRETT: --to force
me to have to leave.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>BARRETT: And let me put
this disclaimer in right now.
The person that I
was married to then,
the father of my children, he
has gone through his change.
I want to say that.
He has gone through his changes.
>>REGINA: This was
when he was unhealed.
>>BARRETT: Absolutely.
So I want to say that.
But one day, when
there was something
that he wanted me to do and
I didn't leave to do it,
and then there was threats,
and there was 300 pound
weights next to me
and somebody was
threatening to drop them on
you, you know, it's time to go.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>BARRETT: So that day
he sent me to the store.
He said, you need to
go get whatever it is,
and the kids were
outside playing.
That one day they just
happened to be there.
They were outside playing.
I always parked the
car in the garage.
That day, something made
me park it on the street.
And I walked out to the
kids and I said, let's go.
We are leaving now.
We are not coming back.
And we ran to that car.
And it felt like an
eternity, those few seconds
of running to get in that car.
And that's how we left.
We just, we ran.
And there were so
many other things
that was surrounding
that moment,
getting certain things
out of the house
and finding somewhere to stay.
Not contacting anybody, not
getting anybody involved.
Driving 30 miles away to sleep
in a different little town
in a parking lot.
And the happiest moment ever is
sleeping in that parking lot.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>BARRETT: So all of that, all
of that, you take all of that
and you put it all together,
and that moment where
you can honestly now sit
and go, what was that,
that 14 years in this situation?
And that's where my
launching pad began because I
needed to understand life.
I thought, what is this
thing we call life?
And that's where I
started to branch off.
So people who are in those
situations at this time,
I think it's important for
us to realize that there
is an opportunity here.
Regardless of how
crazy things are,
there is an incredible
opportunity here
for us to examine
where we are right now
and to make some decisions and
say, OK, this has to change.
This moment has to change.
I cannot continue to live this.
And there's always a way.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And what you're talking
about is very extreme.
And there are a lot of people
going through this same, very
extreme circumstance
that you experienced,
right now, all over the planet.
>>BARRETT: Mm-hmm.
>>REGINA: This is not
location-specific.
It's people being thrust
into each other's lives
in too close a way with
bad dynamics for too long.
>>BARRETT: And it's anybody.
>>REGINA: And it's anybody.
It's surprising
the kind of people.
So this crosses all boundaries.
It's people's dysfunction,
and at this time,
it appears to be a
period of mirrors.
We all get to see ourselves
like we've never seen ourselves
before.
And some of the decisions
are more subtle, like,
why do I want to go
back to that job I hate?
>>BARRETT: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: I hate it.
Where you're being
abusive to yourself
by showing up for something
you hate every day
to put food on the table.
Let's riff on that for a moment.
This is many, many
levels of ourselves
being shown to ourselves.
>>BARRETT: Absolutely.
I mean, there's so
many different layers
to this moment in time.
So this moment in
time is an opportunity
for people to
upgrade themselves.
And you're right.
People are struggling with
jobs they didn't like.
Now, they're not working them,
but the stress that many people
experience going
into the same job,
it's a different kind of
abuse, but it is abuse.
Abuse Is abuse, to self--
>>REGINA: It is.
I mean, you may
have agreed to it,
but nonetheless, it's an
abusive way to treat your life.
>>BARRETT: Absolutely.
Absolutely.
And so I think there's
that honesty factor where
we have to stop and
say, OK, am I happy,
whether it be with
the job, whether it
be in the relationship, whether
it be with people that you're
constantly complying with.
You're struggling
with-- what is it?
What's the word
that we always use?
Expectations.
Living up to other
people's expectations.
So there's a tremendous
amount of stress,
and that stress interrupts
the immune system.
So everything that we've
talked about at this point,
I think people really need
to understand the connection
that all of these things have
to the very core foundation
of health for the body.
So it means that
life isn't really
about just trying to
run away or escape
from a particular
thing, which is what
we're dealing with right now.
It's not about escaping.
It's not about the fear.
It is about that moment
in truthfulness with self.
How am I caring for myself?
And everything you said about
the job, the mental state.
It's all that.
>>REGINA: And the
family dynamics.
One thing that is talked
about some but not enough
is what this is
doing to children.
>>BARRETT: Oh my gosh.
There's tremendous--
>>REGINA: Because now
they're exposed to this.
They're exposed to
the dysfunction.
So the spillover, if it's
not directly related to them,
it's certainly
spilling over on them.
They're cloistered.
They can't go out
and just run and play
unless it's in their own
backyard, and a lot of people
don't have backyards.
So what is this doing to their
emotional, mental, and physical
health?
I mean, I've seen,
in some cases,
where families are chubbing up.
Everybody is just
pounding down the carbs
in order to feel a little
serotonin flowing through.
>>BARRETT: It's the
rippling effects.
That's what we're talking about.
And I think it's necessary,
as you just said,
that these things are discussed
because they are completely
left out of the media.
And this is the fallout.
This is what we're
talking about.
This is the fallout
from this one situation
that is centered on
a particular fear.
And we must
understand that, yes,
there are children
who were already
in homes that were
abusive, whether it
be the parents are abusive
or abusive to the child.
Now, they're stuck there.
Now, everybody in the house is
going through major conflict.
Children not being
able to, as you said,
play and have normality.
It affects the actual
growth even of the body.
And I think people
need to understand
how, all of these things
that we're talking about that
seem to be more about the
emotional aspect, greatly
impacts the actual
physical body, what
happens with the
physical body, because it
is a chemical factory,
and it is producing
all kinds of chemicals,
all kinds of hormones,
based on our feelings,
what we're going through.
Based on all of these things.
And these things are actually,
it's like a fermentation,
like it's fermenting.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>BARRETT: Yeah.
And creating this upstir
in the body's ill health.
>>REGINA: Right.
And this is a real
passion of yours,
which is to find balance
through healthy living
and our own authority
over our own bodies.
And in your documentary you have
this one quote that I really
loved, I think
because of its source.
It says, "unless we put medical
freedom into the Constitution,
the time will come
when medicine will
organize into an
undercover dictatorship."
This was by Dr. Rush, a
signer of the Declaration
of Independence.
Now, a lot of what you're
doing is talking about,
like Dr. Rush did,
there has to be
some protection where we
can maintain authority
over our own bodies.
And I'd like you to
riff on this for a bit
because people are being talked
into all kinds of crazy stuff
right now.
>>BARRETT: Well, I'm
going to say this.
I think one of the
things that we sort of
talked about prior
to this was research,
that this is all part of you
taking back responsibility
for your own self and being
able to navigate around this.
Sure, it seems like
there is difficulty
in navigating around many of
the rules and the mandates
and so on.
But I think that, more
than anything else,
if we can do research on maybe
where to shop, what to buy,
how to manage our
lives, our bodies, what
are the things that
are available to you,
that are accessible to you.
To be able to navigate
around many of these things,
so we have to find ways that
is not necessarily just based
on adhering to the system.
And at the same time,
I'm not telling people
to not adhere to the system,
but you have to understand.
The system it's
made up of people.
These are other human beings,
and they are coming up
with rules and regulations
not really based
on understanding
each person's life.
It's not about that.
It's this one size fits all
and doing what they feel
is necessary for
the good of all.
I don't know that if
it's for the good of all
or if it's for the good of
a particular group of people
and a particular agenda.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And this is the thing.
One thing I have
stated, and this
gets into a lot of
other information,
but I want to bring this up
just to lay a foundation.
I did an interview
recently, a couple of them,
with a man named Carl Calleman.
It has to do with
the Mayan calendar.
waves of consciousness
that civilization goes through.
And one thing that
he talked about--
and I'm just going to drill
down to this tiny piece--
is that when we're in a
time of this particular sine
wave of consciousness,
one of the things that
becomes prevalent is
the notion to mistrust.
We begin mistrusting each
other, mistrusting institutions,
depending on the age,
or in politics, church,
whatever the day was,
we begin mistrusting.
And through this
mistrust, we begin
to develop conspiracy,
conspiratorial thought.
And in doing so, this
can often, if it becomes
the way of thinking en mass, it
can bring about and precipitate
the end of civilizations.
Literally, the end of a
civilization through a takeover
of conspiratorial thinking.
This is what's so tricky
about these times.
We're not being
properly informed
because there seem to be,
no matter what you read
for the most part in mainstream,
vested interests, vested
positions in most
of the articles,
so you can't get the truth of
what's really going on here.
And at the same time, you
don't want to become paranoid
where you start then
thinking you're in the know
and then latching onto the
latest conspiracy theory
and saying, it's those
guys that are doing it,
because it's a way more
complex story than that.
>>BARRETT: Absolutely.
This is layers deep, and
it is very, very touchy
because there's so many things
that, yes, we could talk about,
and there's so many things
that we can't talk about
on any platform.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>BARRETT: But absolutely.
We can say there's
different levels
of the idea then of conspiracy.
Because I'm not even big
on that word anymore.
>>REGINA: I'm not either.
It's misused.
>>BARRETT: Right.
It conjures up untruths
and all kinds of things.
But I think history,
even though history--
yes, history has
been sort of reshaped
to fit certain kinds of models--
we can still see that
throughout history, politics
and certain behaviors
of folks who
have led countries and
people, there's always
been a level of deception.
Maybe not by all, but because
of human nature and human greed,
when it comes to power and
when it comes to control,
so we have to take this back
to some core human behavior.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
And that's the point
that I keep trying
to get at in my
interviews in my own work
is, where do we find what
is true on an innate level
and unshakably true, right?
And this is what
we've wandered far
from by listening to
all these other stories
and having it create fear.
I wrote a note here because
this is really important to what
we're talking about.
When we end up in a
situation like that,
where we think our own
survival is at stake,
we then become vulnerable to
anyone who promises to save us.
>>BARRETT: Absolutely.
We have a Savior program.
>>REGINA: This is not
a good place to be in.
This whole notion, you and I are
exactly on the same page about,
maintaining one's
own inner authority.
Let's talk about the ways in
which we see this happening.
>>BARRETT: Absolutely.
But I think I'd just like to
touch on what you just said.
I think it's really important
that we understand the Savior
program that we have.
It goes way, way way,
way, way, way back.
It's very, very deep.
We are always looking
for someone to save us.
Now, we have to also
understand that many systems,
throughout the times that we
know of then on the planet,
there's always been
conditions that
make us believe that
somebody is coming to save us
and will save us.
So that's embedded in us.
On top of the fact
that, as human beings,
our core nature is
about surviving.
We are designed to survive.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>BARRETT: And
because of that, we
are looking to
anything that will
anchor some sort of
survival, and so we then
become vulnerable.
So this is how people
begin to become vulnerable
because we have to look
at survival from what?
What is the core
thing that we fear?
Death.
Human beings fear non-existence.
And I think that's really
important that we nail that
and we see that at the root of
most fears, particularly now--
>>REGINA: Is being annihilated.
>>BARRETT: --is
being annihilated.
It's not existing.
And so when you see that,
when you look at that,
you realize why
it's always been so
easy to take advantage of
people in their vulnerability.
And health is certainly an arena
that is a most vulnerable spot.
Because without health, what?
You fall apart.
So there's all these
different layers,
so it's not simply just
having to say, you know, well,
it's conspiracy theories.
If a person decides
that they are
going to truly take a
deep, honest look at just
the core makeup of a human
being and begin from there,
I think you can begin to
better trace where we are
and what could be possibly
true and what's not.
The challenge that human
beings have right now is
there's so many different
stories being thrown out.
And not just now, but
throughout all different times.
And because we're not
anchored, many times
we're not anchored in a
foundation for ourselves.
We're not anchored in ourselves.
We tend to navigate
to every next thing.
And so an ability
to really assess,
to add up what makes sense,
sometimes doesn't happen,
so we jump on to the next thing.
So I think we need to go
back to that core state
in order to evaluate what is
being said, does it make sense?
Put two and two together.
I think it can be
really simple if fear
is removed from the equation.
>>REGINA: But you have
to also have ownership.
You have to take
self-responsibility.
>>BARRETT: You have to.
>>REGINA: And we
have been offering
that on others for a long time,
especially our physical health.
>>BARRETT: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: So just to kind
of back up a bit, again,
kind of going a little esoteric,
backing up quite a bit.
So you're talking about a
mindset around this planet
where through
various religions--
and we'll save the relatively
modern age, say the last 10,000
years or so--
have inspired us to give
our power over to something
else, something else to save
us because we're unworthy,
we're not enough.
This has been
inculcated into our DNA
now for thousands of years.
>>BARRETT: It's coded in us.
>>REGINA: Where you've
been incarnating,
and where your
ancestors are from.
It's encoded into us to give
our power away to the gods.
>>BARRETT: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: And these
are gods that I
would say we're self-appointed,
so to speak, to begin with,
to influence humanity.
>>BARRETT: Mm-hmm.
>>REGINA: So we
have a corruption
in the program right there
of giving one's power away,
period.
Now, and because of
that, because this
is so inculcated into us on
literally almost, I think,
a cellular level, and
then you have the body
striving for its own survival.
Even if you go so far as
to say, well, you know,
I've died many times before.
If I die, it's just another.
I'll be back.
Reincarnation, right, which
I'm a firm believer in.
But that's all true.
The body and the being
are still doing everything
they can to survive because
it goes beyond any concepts
and beliefs.
This is something that owns
you on a cellular level, right?
>>BARRETT: Mm-hmm.
>>REGINA: So it's somewhere
in that matrix of, it's OK.
I'm OK with letting
go of this body.
I'll be back.
To oh my god, this
is all I have.
It's one shot and I'm
going to turn to dirt.
We're all living somewhere in
there on this fear spectrum,
right?
>>BARRETT: Right.
Absolutely.
And you said some
things there that I
think we should look at is
the self-responsibility part.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>BARRETT: Because it heavily
ties in with the survival
program and the Savior program.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>BARRETT: That Savior
program has, to some degree,
sort of disconnected that desire
to be responsible for self
because someone else throughout
the ages continue to say,
you are not capable of being
responsible for yourself.
And this is what
we're seeing now,
but it's the same old model.
It's not a new model.
It's the same old
model, different face.
So a human being's
ability, or even
being able to feel that they
have a responsibility to self,
or that they're
capable, is so removed.
It's removed and replaced
with-- and again, I'm
not knocking
religion-- but we're
looking at these models that
is the go-between, so we have
a lot of go-betweens, whether
it be the doctor that's
the go-between or the government
that's the go-between.
We need to look at the
models in place that
continue to support this
idea that we are not
capable of knowing
what's good for us.
>>REGINA: And to your
point, which you bring up,
and it's brought up in your
documentary, that in America,
in particular, I don't know
how it is in other countries
because this is
where I'm steeped,
but disease becomes
part of our identity.
>>BARRETT: Oh, absolutely.
>>REGINA: I have this disease,
restless leg syndrome or cancer
or I'm OCD.
You know, people
identify themselves
by what they have been
told their diseases are.
That, to me, is
almost corruption
at the highest level
perpetuated by the institutions,
but for us, inside
ourselves, that we
would allow
ourselves to identify
with our own life in such a way.
>>BARRETT: Absolutely.
Because I think the other
thing that we need to look at
is our lives are
filled with stories.
Each of our lives, right?
Your 24 hours, excluding the
time that you're sleeping,
is nothing but a
series of stories.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>BARRETT: This
entire experience
is nothing but a
series of stories,
so I think we have to really
begin there to look at,
what is the story that is
being spun at this time?
So the idea of identity and
identifying with a disease
or identifying
whatever it is is a way
to fill up those waking moments.
And I found that fascinating
when I started to look at that.
I thought, whoa.
>>REGINA: It almost
seems like it's being,
but it's being foisted upon
society from a program.
>>BARRETT: It is, but then
there's a series of programs.
>>REGINA: And we take it up.
>>BARRETT: Absolutely.
That's because we're operating
on a foundation of lots
of programs, old programs,
outdated programs, programs
that are sort of
ignited and supported
by the systems in
place, generally,
through some sort of
marketing at this time.
So this is such a huge picture.
Now, I want to throw this in
real quickly because I think,
to me, this is important
to the conversation.
I like to remind people
that the only thing you
know about the world is what's
happening in this moment.
Everything else
is brought to you
by videos and pictures and
films and somebody else's
information.
I have no idea what Japan
is unless I'm there.
I have no idea what is happening
outside of this conversation,
outside of this building, until
I'm out there interacting.
And this is how reality is.
It's all based on what is
going on in this moment.
This is the only thing you know.
Everything else is
pictures and images
and someone telling you what the
rest of the world looks like.
And I think that's
real important.
And somebody will
go, well, how do
you know that
there's things going
on in the rest of the world?
>>REGINA: Right.
>>BARRETT: You're told.
I mean, that's the logic of it.
We're told these
things, so we have
concepts about what these
different places are
supposed to look like, because
that's how the brain works.
The brain looks for
patterns, right?
We've been thrown enough
patterns about reality,
day in day out, passed on
now through our genetics,
through the collective,
through our families.
We just don't get that.
It's like a computer programmed
with a lot of information
and data.
>>REGINA: And as some
would argue, a simulation.
Yeah.
>>BARRETT: Yeah.
Oh, absolutely.
As to what reality is
supposed to look like.
So we have this
multi-level construct
that we're dealing with in this
conversation that we could talk
about for hours because
it's so many layers
deep as to the
human being and what
is a human being
and this experience.
What is this experience?
Reality.
What is this reality?
Are we all experiencing
the same thing?
So many different factors.
And so it does go
back to the need,
the necessity of an individual
beginning to ask questions,
beginning to realize that
it's possible for them
to take ownership of self.
As a matter of fact, you've
never lost ownership of self.
What you have, though,
is the illusion
of not being
responsible for yourself
because with your own power,
you've given your power away.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>BARRETT: So it's this
really interesting human story
and human experience
that we're dealing with.
It's just fascinating.
>>REGINA: It is.
And you talk about the
marketing of disease,
giving our power away.
Even the marketing of survival.
>>BARRETT: Oh, yes.
How old you're going
to live and all that.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Let's go into that for a
little bit because, I mean,
when you come down
to it, how we're each
going to fare through
these challenging times
and challenging times
beyond, it has so much
to do with the level of the
frequency we choose to live at.
And that's something
that's internally
chosen and generated.
And we can live in the lower
spectrum, in abject fear of one
another, even starting to blame
and so forth, which really,
literally, as you know,
that acidifies the blood.
>>BARRETT: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: Living
in fear acidifies
the blood making you more prone
to anything that comes along
and any kind of dis-ease,
right, or imbalance.
So we know that, but
we know opposite that.
If you choose to
live in this state
where, my body is perfectly
adapted to handling everything
if I'm responsible and do the
responsible thing for myself,
that's a whole different thing.
We'll get to that
because that's where
we're going to go in our
conversation, what we can do.
But let's talk about the
marketing of survival first.
>>BARRETT: The
marketing of-- there
are so many things I'd like
to talk about, oh my goodness.
>>REGINA: Go for it.
We've got some time.
>>BARRETT: Well, the marketing--
OK, we'll talk about the
marketing of survival.
But I want to go back
real quickly to the reason
why it's necessary
for human beings
to take back responsibility.
You talk about the wheel,
the reincarnation wheel.
I know we're not going
to get into all of that,
but they need to understand
that not owning your power
is how you are
kept in a certain--
>>REGINA: In these patterns.
>>BARRETT: --in these patterns,
in this state of existence.
And to become aware, which
is why the system struggles
with its design.
I shouldn't say struggle
But the system presents
itself in a way that
helps people to continue to not
believe that they are capable,
otherwise the game
doesn't change.
>>REGINA: To
disempower humanity.
>>BARRETT: Absolutely.
The game would change
for the individual.
Maybe not the whole construct,
but for the individual.
Every time you wake
up on that level,
the game changes for you.
And so this is really important
for people to understand.
So the marketing is
part of that system that
helps to keep the game
going a certain way,
the game of oppression,
the game of suppression,
the game of not being capable.
All of those systems.
The game of vulnerability,
of survival.
The fear of not existing.
Marketing keeps that
going by basic things
like ads that tell you how old--
well, when an ad
comes up and it says,
if you're between the
ages of 40 or 30 to 85,
that alone is so suggestive
as to how long you can live
and what the boundaries
are and the cutoffs.
We also see commercials
where a child
is talking to the grandfather,
and the grandfather
or grandmother has
COPD or something.
Now, the person is made to look
a certain way at a certain age.
The child is being encoded.
Children are being
encoded in that moment
to know that the journey
consists of this path.
This is something we
need to understand
is how this encoding happens
from the very beginning on.
So by the time the child gets to
a certain age or certain point,
they start thinking
a certain way.
Well, you know, I'm getting up
in age or this is happening.
It becomes automatic.
So my question in
the very beginning
was, even as a child, is,
what the heck is this?
Because it made no sense to me.
We live life based
on suggestions,
and I don't think
we realize that.
Life is suggested to us, and
that's what marketing is.
It's a lot of suggestions
that we take in.
And over time, you have
layers of this suggestion that
begins to form a particular
version of reality,
a prescribed version of
reality for individuals,
and we started living
by this prescription.
>>REGINA: This starts from
the moment we're born.
>>BARRETT: Oh, absolutely.
>>REGINA: When you're
welcomed into the world,
you're already in the
family mindset, which
is in the cultural
mindset, that has all
the other submindsets in it.
And so this is not a small
topic we're talking about.
It's sovereignty of mind.
>>BARRETT: It's big.
It's a very big topic.
And I find that it
would be wonderful to be
able to have this
kind of discussion
or this kind of
information, particularly
when you have people living
in the space of fear.
And I'm going to
throw this out there.
When we're talking about
operating in the space of fear,
there are people
who are considered
in a state of awareness,
and they themselves
are operating in a
deep level of fear.
There's different
kinds of fear, but I'm
talking about fear in the sense
of what's going on right now.
And we have to understand
that this moment, once again,
this moment in time
is transformative.
It's two sides of a coin.
We've got the agenda
of the system,
meaning the-- and
when I say the system,
I'm talking the physical
people who run things--
and then there is
the greater agenda
of the evolution
of the human being,
and this is where we are.
This can be used as a
launching pad for people
to begin to question and
to tap into themselves.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
Because this is a period,
with everything slowed down
as it has been, this is a
period for maybe the first time
in our lives, collectively, we
actually have time to observe.
>>BARRETT: Yes.
>>REGINA: We have time to
think, ask questions that we
haven't bothered
answering because--
>>BARRETT: It's
the perfect time.
>>REGINA: Yeah, we have
nothing better to do.
And I see it as a
very powerful time
as well to say
nothing of the fact,
it's quite conceivable,
that whatever
this is that our
bodies are contending
with might be something
that is having us adapt
on the level of DNA
toward some end result
we're not aware of yet
that's positive even.
>>BARRETT: That's right.
>>REGINA: That is quite
conceivable that this is,
I don't want to use--
it's too trite to use
the word upgrade--
but an adaptation
or an evolution
that needs to occur
because something else
may be ready to occur down
the road at some point.
>>BARRETT: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: So our
bodies are contending
with whatever this virus is,
whatever you think of it,
will mutate.
No matter what its
source, it will mutate.
>>BARRETT: As many things have.
>>REGINA: As they all do, right?
>>BARRETT: Mm-hmm.
>>REGINA: So let's focus on
what the opportunity is here
and what we need to do
by way of really taking
our health into our hands, which
is what your documentary is
talking about.
>>BARRETT: Absolutely.
And it goes back to that
idea of self-responsibility,
of self-truth, of
self-examination,
of really looking at
how we live our life.
And this has nothing to do with
guilt or blame or any of that.
It's just a moment in time
where you start thinking, well,
you know, I have been
either carrying this around,
my pain, my hurt from
a past relationship,
or whatever it is,
you've been carrying it.
Can we just be honest and
say, I've been carrying this
and I feel the
weight of this here,
but I really am
ready to let it go.
And sometimes it might seem
like it's so simple to say that.
But I tell you, this whole
being, this brain, this mind,
is all about taking
commands from you,
from that greater
aspect of yourself.
>>REGINA: If you don't give
it to you, someone else will.
>>BARRETT: Someone else will.
And that's basically
what happens.
So I think that, yes,
this situation is--
I think people who have a lot
of underlying health conditions
are probably being
greatly affected.
But we also have
to look at, again,
what can we do to build
our immune system?
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>BARRETT: And yes, it's fruits,
vegetables, and all of that,
but we must look at the
emotional part of it.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
And people don't look
at the immune system
as anything other than
physical, but it's mental.
We have a mental, emotional,
spiritual immune system.
>>BARRETT: It's a
holistic process.
It's a holistic thing.
>>REGINA: So let's
talk about that.
Because we talked earlier
about fear and anger
acidifies the blood which makes
you more prone to disease,
especially internal inflammation
of all kinds, chronic disease.
So let's look at the
opposite of that.
>>BARRETT: Absolutely.
And I think it is
wonderful, but it's
a fact that we do have to look
at the other side of the coin,
which we did, which is
the feeling of frustration
and, oh my gosh,
this is all going on.
But then, like you
said, now, we have
to look at the other side of it.
And so the idea
of, yes, of being
in fear and of figuring out,
what can I now do with my body
to move myself beyond
this situation, I think
needs to be the core
conversation with self.
And I'm going to bring up
real quickly the food aspect.
Because when you're eating a lot
of processed foods and things
that people are picking up
because they want to make sure
they have things,
and you're picking up
a lot of foods that are
processed with sodium
and all kinds of preservatives.
And you're going to eat
that, but you're sitting
in your house and you're
depressed, you're already down,
the impact of that food on your
body is perhaps going to be--
not perhaps, it's going to
be a bit more severe than
if a person is in a
more content state--
>>REGINA: Elevated state.
>>BARRETT: Elevated
state of mind.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>BARRETT: Absolutely.
Elevated state,
which is a higher
frequency of consciousness,
of awareness, of mind.
It's going to have a
completely different effect.
We have to understand
that the body is having
to fight to compensate and
to process the processed
food along with processing
the emotions, the acidity
of the emotions.
So your body is doing
overtime in trying to work
with these two conditions.
And I think those things are
super important for people
to understand how the body is
actually working and getting
through this.
And eating those things
will actually also
add to one feeling depressed.
Because, as I said before,
the body's a chemical factory,
and it's reacting to
what you're eating.
So there's this whole
process that's going on.
>>REGINA: It's true.
Hold that thought.
Continue.
But this has
historically been true.
When you find yourself
in an emotional state,
in a lot of the world's
traditions you either fast
or you only have very,
very light foods,
foods like fruits or
juices or something.
This is traditional
to start allowing
for the immune system of the
emotional body to heal as well.
>>BARRETT: Absolutely.
And all of that goes
back to-- and I'm
going to use that term
again because I think
we have to look at this
from different ways--
but I refer to the body
as one of the highest
levels of technology.
And technology not only in
the sense of our cell phones
and so on, but this incredible
level of technology.
And to remind people that
it is a sensory system which
is how you're experiencing
this reality, life here.
It's processing
all your emotions
and all your feelings
as you interact
and have a
relationship with what
we define as external reality.
So it's your processing system.
And so with that
understanding, I
think a person can
start looking at, well,
how am I caring for
this processing system?
What am I taking into it?
How do I feel about me?
This is a great time
to assess those things
and to be honest with yourself.
How am I feeling
about me right now?
A lot of times how we
feel about ourselves
obviously is what is directing
us to the relationships
that we get to, to even
the jobs that we have.
I often tell people
that, you think
you're working the job
because of the money.
You're there for the money.
But no, we are everywhere
we are because it supports
the story, the inner story.
>>REGINA: And a lot
of this is self-worth,
comes back to self-worth.
You take a job that's barely
acceptable because you
feel that, well, that's
all you really deserve
on a subconscious level.
The same with relationships that
aren't offering us what we need
or allowing us to contribute
what we have to give because
of self-worth again.
>>BARRETT: Self-worth,
and at the same time,
we draw these people
and conditions
that really are prompting us.
But we instead, what we see
is, oh, I'm so upset with this.
My boss, my this
person, my that.
Actually, they are helping you.
I mean, this is the
crazy part about it.
When I started to
understand this,
I realized that the only reason
why I'm here is because--
I say, read your life like a
data printout, like a printout.
And so everything that
you're interacting with,
the person on your job that
you just don't get along with,
and every time you leave a
job, you go to another job
and you find somebody
else like that.
This is like reading a printout.
>>REGINA: Mismatched
frequencies.
>>BARRETT: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: Until you lift the
frequency, it's the same thing.
>>BARRETT: Till you choose
to examine it and take back
control, as opposed to them,
them, them, them, them.
That's what they're doing to me.
Well, they're
responding according
to the frequency,
the frequency that's
coming from you, which
is the frequency of one's
belief about oneself.
So this is all unmatched energy.
It's all, like you
said, frequencies
that we're operating under.
And when we can start to
see that-- and it's OK.
You can just own it.
I mean, you know how that feels.
>>REGINA: But this is the thing
people are so afraid of this.
They're so afraid of owning it,
of just looking at the fact,
we don't have to
buy our sizzle reel.
I mean, that's been really
kind of the devastating act
of social media
is people putting
out all the bright, shiny
things about their lives
and looking at each
other with envy
and awe at the amazing
life someone else
has when they're just putting
out their sizzle reel.
They're not talking
about the rest of life.
And so now people
have even had it
more reinforced to be
ashamed of the parts
that are unhealed or kind
of lagging a bit behind what
we would desire for ourselves.
>>BARRETT: Yeah, embarrassed.
>>REGINA: Yeah, you're
kind of embarrassed.
To get out from that,
just knock it off.
That's a sizzle reel.
That is not a reflective
of anyone else's life.
This whole hero worship
thing has got to go, right?
And I love what you had to say
a minute ago because I think
that's where you do take stock.
If we know we're all here, we're
all learning, we're all flawed,
we all have problems, and we all
have an incredibly impeccable,
beautiful spiritual core,
then we can have the courage
to, like you said,
look at our life,
for now, as a data printout.
Where is it going
where we need it to?
Where am I off?
What have I done recently?
It really kind of put
things in a downward spiral.
And then respond to it
appropriately and honestly.
That's the beginning
of sovereignty
is being able to look at
your own data printout.
>>BARRETT: Absolutely,
the stories.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
I love the way you said that.
>>BARRETT: Absolutely.
And the stories are
shaped from that printout.
This is the interaction
we're having.
It's these stories.
So I think that the
other thing that people
need to be reminded of is,
we come here on this journey,
and to be a human being
is about exploring
all and any potential.
Now, you and I might not
explore the same potential
that the other person might.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>BARRETT: But this
is about experiencing.
So everything that
you've lived--
and we have to look at it that
way-- everything that I've
lived, and everything
that I'm living right now,
and everything that I
will live in the future,
has all been my purpose.
There is no one thing
over here where,
this is finally my purpose.
No.
Everything you've
lived have brought you
right here to this moment.
And if you hadn't gone through
those particular things,
then you wouldn't have
arrived right here.
So I think it's
being able to look
at life differently and go, OK.
So where do I want
to launch from here?
If we can take that honest look
instead of beating ourselves up
about what happened and what
didn't happen and just realize,
wait a second.
That was just an experience.
I am an experiencer.
This is the mission.
>>REGINA: That's right.
>>BARRETT: I have come here
and I've done my experiencing.
I would like to
step it up, however.
I would like to move into a
new level of experiencing.
And I think, again, this
is that moment in time.
This is an incredible
opportunity
to step into new areas
of possibilities.
The possibilities don't end.
This is the thing.
There is no finality to the
game of life and experiencing.
There is just new
levels, and they
have different frequencies.
You're vibrating at
different levels,
not good, not bad, not better.
Just new frequencies.
The more elevated, where you no
longer need those experiences
anymore, you've gotten all
that you can out of that.
You've wrung it dry.
You've done with those stories.
Now, I'm ready to move forward.
And how did you get
to move forward?
Because you had
those experiences.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>BARRETT: So it is
very simple, but it's
getting ourselves to step away
from the shame and the guilt
of what life presented
us over time.
>>REGINA: Yes, you're
absolutely right.
And having the courage to be
able to look at your life-- it
takes courage to
look at your life
honestly-- and take this moment
in time to look at our lives
honestly, which I think
every single human being that
has any cognitive
skills on this planet
should be doing right
now for ourselves.
>>BARRETT: Yes.
>>REGINA: For our
own well-being.
To have the courage to do that.
And then, to have that final bit
which is to take responsibility
for what you learn and say, OK.
This might require
a little effort.
It might require a
little discipline,
which a lot of people don't
like that word, right?
>>BARRETT: Mm-hmm.
>>REGINA: But the
opportunity, if I do that,
to do this personal upgrade
in our own reality is huge.
We have the moment
now to evaluate that.
>>BARRETT: Oh, absolutely.
Absolutely.
And the frequency changes.
When the frequency of thought
changes, believe it or not,
it lightens you.
It can actually
lighten your body
because the weight of
the, what should we say,
the lower frequencies
is just that.
>>REGINA: Yeah
>>BARRETT: There is a lot more--
well, your cells aren't getting
the same amount of oxygen.
You have to understand that,
so that's what's happening.
The less oxygen you're
getting, the more vulnerable
you are to an illness
or to anything
that is an adverse
experience against the body.
So we need to realize
that you can actually
begin to look even younger.
I mean, this is--
we take vacation.
Real quickly, just
to look at that.
People go on vacation
and then they come back
and people go, wow, you look
so young, so much younger.
That tells you, the
weight of life and the job
and all of that,
for that moment,
for a week or two or
even a couple of days,
that person had a chance
to take that deep breath
and to release it
all, and that's
how pliable the brain is.
That's how pliable the body is.
Everything will
bend to our will.
We just have to understand that.
>>REGINA: Including
the material.
Including the physical.
>>BARRETT: Yes.
>>REGINA: There's nothing
that we're being handed here
that's a death sentence for
society, for us as individuals.
It might feel like
it in the moment,
especially if you've
lost your line of work,
hopefully it's a line of work
that you didn't like anyway
so you can reinvent yourself.
But everything is
possible right now.
I totally agree with you.
>>BARRETT: I agree.
Yeah.
>>REGINA: We're totally in sync.
>>BARRETT: Oh yeah.
>>REGINA: Any final thought
before we say goodbye?
>>BARRETT: The
biggest final thought
I always like to leave people
is to commit and give yourself
permission.
Most of all, give
yourself permission
to want to be more,
to want to tap
into a deeper level of self.
You must give your permission to
yourself first and then commit,
and then say, I'm
ready, and things
will begin to show up for you.
>>REGINA: I agree with that.
Sonia, it's been so lovely
being able to sit and chat again
after all of these
years, and I think
it's an important conversation.
Sovereignty of mind and
personal responsibility
are the words that I think are
going to bring every one of us
to a higher level out
of this challenge.
>>BARRETT: Absolutely.
>>BOTH: Thank you so much.
>>REGINA: You can go to Sonia's
YouTube channel, The Expansion
Zone, to see more of her
videos on all of these topics.
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds."
[THEME MUSIC]